To host a static website using Amazon S3, you can configure an S3 bucket to serve static content. Follow these steps to set up and host a static web page on S3:

Step 1: Create an S3 Bucket
Go to the S3 Console and create a new bucket with a unique name.
Region: Choose a region closest to your audience for faster loading times.
Bucket name: The bucket name should match the domain name if you plan to use a custom domain (e.g., example.com or www.example.com).
Step 2: Configure the Bucket for Static Website Hosting
Select your bucket, go to the Properties tab, and scroll to Static website hosting.
Select Enable static website hosting.
Index document: Enter index.html (or your main HTML file).
(Optional) Error document: Enter error.html (if you have a custom error page).
Step 3: Set Bucket Policy for Public Access
To make the bucket publicly accessible, apply a bucket policy:

Go to the Permissions tab, and click Bucket policy.

Add this policy to allow public read access to all objects:

json
Copy code
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
    }
  ]
}
Replace your-bucket-name with the name of your bucket.

Save the policy and confirm any warnings about public access.

Step 4: Upload Website Files
Go to the Objects tab in your S3 bucket.
Upload your index.html file and any other necessary files (e.g., CSS, JavaScript, images).
Ensure each file’s permissions allow public read access (the bucket policy should handle this for all objects if configured correctly).
Step 5: Access the Website
Once configured, you’ll have a website endpoint in the format http://your-bucket-name.s3-website-<AWS-region>.amazonaws.com. This URL is available in the Static website hosting section of the Properties tab.

(Optional) Step 6: Use a Custom Domain with Route 53
If you want to use a custom domain:

In your domain's DNS settings (in Route 53 or your DNS provider), create an Alias record pointing to your S3 website endpoint.
Update the DNS settings as needed, then you’ll be able to access the site with your custom domain.
Your static website should now be live and accessible to the public!